  Overview We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to customers, and continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a global network of vehicle service centers, Mobile Service, body shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our products and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by offering financial and other services tailored to our products. We believe that this mission, along with our engineering expertise, vertically integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from other companies. Additionally, the automotive segment also includes services and other, which includes non-warranty after-sales vehicle services and parts, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, paid Supercharging and vehicle insurance revenue. We have also announced several planned electric vehicles to address additional vehicle markets, including specialized consumer electric vehicles in Cybertruck and the new Tesla Roadster. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products. We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization platforms. Solar Energy Offerings We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and also make them available through power purchase agreement PPA arrangements. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy products. We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel customers. We continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on new homes. We have designed our proprietary powertrain systems to be adaptable, efficient, reliable and cost-effective while withstanding the rigors of an automotive environment. We offer dual motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration, as well as vehicle powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased performance in certain versions of Model S and Model X and the Tesla Semi. Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs utilize sophisticated control software. Self-Driving Development and Artificial Intelligence We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to enable self-driving vehicles using primarily vision-based technologies. We are also applying our artificial intelligence learnings from self-driving technology to the field of robotics. For example, in 2022 we previewed Optimus, a robotic humanoid which is controlled by the same AI system. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products We leverage many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles in our energy storage products. Additionally, our expertise in power electronics enables our battery systems to interconnect with electricity grids while providing fast-acting systems for power injection and absorption. We have also developed software to remotely control and dispatch our energy storage systems. Solar Energy Systems We have engineered Solar Roof over numerous iterations to combine aesthetic appeal and durability with power generation. We have also achieved complex engineering feats in stamping, casting and thermal systems, and developed a method to integrate batteries directly with vehicle body structures without separate battery packs to optimize manufacturability, weight, range and cost characteristics. We are also expanding our manufacturing operations globally while taking action to localize our vehicle designs and production for particular markets, including country-specific market demands and factory optimizations for local workforces. Energy Generation and Storage Our expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering allows us to design, engineer, manufacture and install energy generating and storage products and components, including at the residential through utility scale. For example, the modular design of our Megapack utility-scale battery line is intended to significantly reduce the amount of assembly required in the field. We also customize solutions including our energy storage products, solar energy systems andor Solar Roof for customers to meet their specific needs. Automotive Direct Sales Our vehicle sales channels currently include our website and an international network of company-owned stores. We believe this infrastructure enables us to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, educate consumers about electric vehicles, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand and obtain rapid customer feedback. We also remarket used Tesla vehicles acquired from other sources including lease returns. We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail and public destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer additional charging options for our customers, as well as single-family homeowners and multi-family residential entities, to deploy home charging solutions. We expect that this functionality will also allow us to offer certain options and features on a subscription basis in the future. Energy Generation and Storage We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to residential, commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of channels, including through our website, stores and galleries, as well as through our network of channel partners, and in the case of some commercial customers, through PPA transactions. We emphasize simplicity, standardization and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs. Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service Plans We provide a manufacturers limited warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles we sell, which may include separate limited warranties on certain components, specific types of damage or battery capacity retention. We also currently offer extended service plans that provide coverage beyond the new vehicle limited warranties for certain models in specified regions. Energy Generation and Storage We provide service and repairs to our energy product customers, including under warranty where applicable. We generally provide manufacturers limited warranties with our energy storage products and offer certain extended limited warranties that are available at the time of purchase of the system. As part of our solar energy system and energy storage contracts, we may provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or performance requirements specified in the contract. We also intend to further increase cost-competitiveness in our significant markets by strategically adding local manufacturing. We have developed close relationships with vendors of key parts such as battery cells, electronics and complex vehicle assemblies. Certain components purchased from these suppliers are shared or are similar across many product lines, allowing us to take advantage of pricing efficiencies from economies of scale. We also mitigate risk by maintaining safety stock for key parts and assemblies and die banks for components with lengthy procurement lead times. For example, qualifying Tesla customers may receive up to 7,500 in federal tax credits for the purchase of qualified electric vehicles in the U.S through 2032. Automotive Regulatory Credits We earn tradable credits in the operation of our business under various regulations related to zero-emission vehicles ZEVs, greenhouse gas, fuel economy and clean fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who can use the credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory requirements. Sales of these credits are recognized within automotive regulatory credits revenue in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 8   Energy Storage System Incentives and Policies While the regulatory regime for energy storage projects is still under development, there are various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms at the federal, state and local levels that support the adoption of energy storage. For example, energy storage systems that are charged using solar energy may be eligible for the solar energy-related U.S. federal tax credits described below. In addition, California and a number of other states have adopted procurement targets for energy storage, and behind-the-meter energy storage systems qualify for funding under the California Self Generation Incentive Program. In certain instances our customers may transfer such credits to us as contract consideration. In such transactions, they are included as a component of energy generation and storage revenues in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Pursuant to the IRA, under Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the Internal Revenue Code IRC, standalone energy storage technology is eligible for a tax credit between 6 and 50 of qualified expenditures, regardless of the source of energy, which may be claimed by our customers for storage systems they purchase or by us for arrangements where we own the systems. Solar Energy System Incentives and Policies U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms to reduce the cost of solar energy and to accelerate the adoption of solar energy. These incentives include tax credits, cash grants, tax abatements and rebates. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all applicable FMVSS and the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before the vehicles may be imported or sold in the U.S. We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, labeling requirements and other information provided to customers in writing, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, a Standing General Order requiring reports regarding crashes involving vehicles equipped with advanced driver assistance systems, and additional requirements for cooperating with compliance and safety investigations and recall reporting. Automobile Information and Disclosure Act also requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturers suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, federal law requires inclusion of fuel economy ratings, as determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency the EPA, and New Car Assessment Program ratings as determined by NHTSA, if available. Additionally, the European Union established new rules regarding additional compliance oversight that commenced in 2020. Self-Driving Vehicles Generally, laws pertaining to self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and in some cases may create restrictions on features that we develop. Certain U.S. states also have legal restrictions on the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving vehicles, and many other states are considering them. Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation In the U.S., state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents. Certain states have asserted that the laws in such states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer, or that they otherwise restrict a manufacturers ability to deliver or perform warranty repairs on vehicles. In certain such states, we have opened galleries that serve an educational purpose and where sales may not occur. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to our ownership and operation of our own retail and service locations. We expect such challenges to continue, and we intend to actively fight any such efforts. We have agreements with third party battery recycling companies to recycle our battery packs, and we are also piloting our own recycling technology. Solar EnergyGeneral We are subject to certain state and federal regulations applicable to solar and battery storage providers and sellers of electricity. Sales of electricity and non-sale equipment leases by third parties, such as our leases and PPAs, have faced regulatory challenges in some states and jurisdictions. Solar EnergyNet Metering Most states in the U.S. make net energy metering, or net metering, available to solar customers. In certain jurisdictions, regulators or utilities have reduced or eliminated the benefit available under net metering or have proposed to do so. Competition Automotive The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive and we expect it will become even more competitive in the future as we introduce additional vehicles in a broader cross-section of the passenger and commercial vehicle market and expand our vehicles capabilities. For example, Model S and Model X compete primarily with premium sedans and premium SUVs and Model 3 and Model Y compete with small to medium-sized sedans and compact SUVs, which are extremely competitive markets. Competing products typically include internal combustion vehicles from more established automobile manufacturers; however, many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles. In addition, several manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including plug-in versions. We believe that there is also increasing competition for our vehicle offerings as a platform for delivering self-driving technologies, charging solutions and other features and services, and we expect to compete in this developing market through continued progress on our Autopilot, FSD and neural network capabilities, Supercharger network and our infotainment offerings. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Systems The market for energy storage products is also highly competitive, and both established and emerging companies have introduced products that are similar to our product portfolio or that are alternatives to the elements of our systems. We compete with these companies based on price, energy density and efficiency. We believe that the specifications and features of our products, our strong brand and the modular, scalable nature of our energy storage products give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Solar Energy Systems The primary competitors to our solar energy business are the traditional local utility companies that supply energy to our potential customers. We compete with these traditional utility companies primarily based on price and the ease by which customers can switch to electricity generated by our solar energy systems. We also compete with solar energy companies that provide products and services similar to ours. We believe we have a significant expansion opportunity with our offerings and that the regulatory environment is increasingly conducive to the adoption of renewable energy systems. As part of our business, we seek to protect the underlying intellectual property rights of these innovations and designs such as with respect to patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, including through employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements. For example, we place a high priority on obtaining patents to provide the broadest and strongest possible protection to enable our freedom to operate our innovations and designs within our products and technologies in the electric vehicle market as well as to protect and defend our product portfolio. We have also adopted a patent policy in which we irrevocably pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith. We believe the world cannot reduce carbon emissions without addressing both energy generation and consumption, and we are designing and manufacturing a complete energy and transportation ecosystem to achieve this goal. We are focused on further enhancing sustainability of operations outside of our direct control, including reducing the carbon footprint of our supply chain. We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to child or forced labor and human trafficking by our suppliers and we look to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Due Diligence Guidelines to inform our process and use feedback from our internal and external stakeholders to find ways to continually improve. We are also driving safety in our own factories by focusing on worker engagement. We also strive to be an employer of choice by offering compelling, impactful jobs with best in-industry benefits. We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve our goals, including with respect to ESG. We continue to evolve a governance framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high principles of business ethics. We offer employees the opportunity to receive equity during their employment and share in the success of Tesla. We are committed to providing a workplace where our employees feel respected and appreciated. We hire, evaluate, and promote employees based on their skills and performance. These include harassment, retaliation, violence, intimidation, and discrimination of any kind on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability or veteran status. In addition, we run various leadership development programs throughout the year aimed at enhancing leaders skills, and in particular, helping them to understand how to appropriately respond to employee concerns. We have also implemented an HR Chatbot for 24x7 answers to team members questions. We are focused on intentionally creating pathways to career opportunities across Tesla through strategic initiatives such as: Internships and Apprenticeships - Over 3,000 university and community college students from around the world are hired into internship and apprenticeship opportunities at Tesla annually. We hired 144 graduates through this program in 2022, and our goal in 2023 is to grow this program 2.5X to over 360 students annually across our Fremont Factory, Gigafactory Nevada, Gigafactory Texas, and Gigafactory New York. In addition, the SEC maintains a website www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.